In this video we're going to discuss port security which is used to provide a level of authentication
in an Ethernet environment in a wired ethernet environment as an example.
There's nothing stopping you simply plugging in your PC into any open port in the network.
So as an example there's nothing stopping a user connecting their PC to a port in a director's office
which then results in them having access to the director's villain.
There's also nothing stopping a user connecting a wireless access point to the network and allowing
multiple users to access the wired network through that wireless access point.
That's a major security risk.
What ports security does is it looks at the source MAC address of frame's received on a port and you
can restrict the frames are allowed on a specific port to either a single MAC address that you configure
or to a limited number of MAC addresses that are dynamically learnt.
There are various options which we'll discuss but as an example you could say on the port that connects
to the director's office only the MAC address associated with their laptop or their PC is allowed to
send frame's to the switch and therefore belong to the directors villain.
Or you could limit the number of MAC addresses allowed in a port as an example you could limit the number
of MAC addresses to one which would only allow a single PC to access the network through that port.
Or if you have a PC connected to an IP phone you may limit the MAC addresses to three to for the IP
phone and one for the PC attached to the IP phone.
That would stop a user connecting an access point or a hub to the network and allowing multiple unauthorized
devices access to the ethernet network.
Please note this is not a user use any cation user.
Syndication can be implemented using a tool that one x.
This is a more basic authentication based on MAC addresses so only frames from specific MAC addresses
are allowed or a limited number of MAC addresses are permitted on a port on a switch that solves the
issue of a user connecting to a port that they're not authorized to connect to.
Stopping a user connecting a hub a wireless access point to the network and therefore allowing unauthorized
access to the network.
You can decide what happens when there's a violation of port security.
You could simply drop the frames or you could shut the port down using what's called an error a disable
state in the most secure implementation where you disable the port.
You as an administrator have to manually re-enable the port so the user would have to contact the helpdesk
as an example and explain that they no longer have access to the network and then you could investigate
what happened and you'd be able to see if an authorized MAC address or group of MAC addresses of tried
to access the network through that port.